Python gives you the ability to create a class that inherits properties from any Python built-in class in order to get a new class that can enrich the parent's attributes or methods. As a result, your newly-created class has the advantage of all of the well-known functionalities inherited from its parent or even parents and you can still access those attributes and methods.

Later, you can override the methods by delivering your own modifications for the selected methods.

In the following example, we’ll create an implementation of our own list class, which will only accept elements of the integer type. But, wait – why might you need such an object?

Imagine that you need to collect the serial numbers of sold tickets. Sound reasonable enough?

Your new class will be based on the Python list implementation and will also validate the type of elements that are about to be placed onto it.

Such a list can be used in an application that requires the list elements to be of a specific type (integers in the ticketing example), and control over the types of elements is given to the mechanisms of the new class.

As a result, when solving a domain problem, we focus on the problem and not on type control.

Something that’s worth commenting on is that we have delivered:

- a static, dedicated method for checking argument types. As we have delegated this responsibility to only one method, the code will be shorter, cleaner and easier to maintain. We'll make use of this method a few times. In case the argument's type is not an integer, a ValueError exception is raised;
- an overridden method __setitem__, which is a magic method (mind the underscores) responsible for inserting (overwriting) an element at a given position. This method calls the check_value_type() method and later calls the genuine method __setitem__ which comes from the parent class, which does the rest of the job (sets the validated value at a given position). Now you can sigh – “oh, what a great ability!”
- an overridden method, append(), which is responsible for appending an element to the end of the list. This method follows the previous way of dealing with a new element;
- an overridden method, extend(), to verify and add a collection of elements to the object.

What have we not delivered?

- All the remaining methods have remained unchanged, so our new list-like class will still behave like its parent in those places.

To make our newly-created class fully functional, it’s necessary to deliver implementations for the methods:

- insert(index, object)
- __add__()

These implementations should be fairly similar to the implementations delivered above (validate the type and then call the corresponding superclass method).

```python
class IntegerList(list):

    @staticmethod
    def check_value_type(value):
        if type(value) is not int:
            raise ValueError('Not an integer type')

    def __setitem__(self, index, value):
        IntegerList.check_value_type(value)
        list.__setitem__(self, index, value)

    def append(self, value):
        IntegerList.check_value_type(value)
        list.append(self, value)

    def extend(self, iterable):
        for element in iterable:
            IntegerList.check_value_type(element)

        list.extend(self, iterable)


int_list = IntegerList()

int_list.append(66)
int_list.append(22)
print('Appending int elements succeed:', int_list)

int_list[0] = 49
print('Inserting int element succeed:', int_list)

int_list.extend([2, 3])
print('Extending with int elements succeed:', int_list)

try:
    int_list.append('8-10')
except ValueError:
    print('Appending string failed')

try:
    int_list[0] = '10/11'
except ValueError:
    print('Inserting string failed')

try:
    int_list.extend([997, '10/11'])
except ValueError:
    print('Extending with ineligible element failed')

print('Final result:', int_list)
```

# Summary:

- Python allows you to subclass any built-in class such as a list, tuple, dictionary, and many others;
- by subclassing the built-ins, you can easily adapt generics to provide more sophisticated features;
- by subclassing the built-ins, you can modify only the parts (methods, attributes) that you intend to modify, while all remaining parts will behave as good old built-ins.