- **class** — an idea, blueprint, or recipe for an instance;
- **instance** — an instantiation of the class; very often used interchangeably with the term 'object';
- **object** — Python's representation of data and methods; objects could be aggregates of instances;
- **attribute** — any object or class trait; could be a variable or method;
- **method** — a function built into a class that is executed on behalf of the class or object; some say that it’s a 'callable attribute';
- **type** — refers to the class that was used to instantiate the object.


An **instance** is one particular physical instantiation of a class that occupies memory and has data elements. This is what 'self' refers to when we deal with class instances.

An **object** is everything in Python that you can operate on, like a class, instance, list, or dictionary.

The term **instance** is very often used interchangeably with the term **object**, because **object** refers to a particular instance of a class. It’s a bit of a simplification, because the term **object** is more general than **instance**.

The relation between instances and classes is quite simple: we have one class of a given type and an unlimited number of instances of a given class.

Each instance has its own, individual state (expressed as variables, so objects again) and shares its behavior (expressed as methods, so objects again).

An **attribute** is a capacious term that can refer to two major kinds of class traits:

- variables, containing information about the class itself or a class instance; classes and class instances can own many variables;
- methods, formulated as Python functions; they represent a behavior that could be applied to the object.

Each Python object has its own individual set of attributes. We can extend that set by adding new attributes to existing objects, change (reassign) them or control access to those attributes.

It is said that methods are the 'callable attributes' of Python objects. By 'callable' we should understand anything that can be called; such objects allow you to use round parentheses () and eventually pass some parameters, just like functions.

This is a very important fact to remember: methods are called on behalf of an object and are usually executed on object data.

Class attributes are most often addressed with 'dot' notation, i.e., <class/>**dot**<attribute/>. The other way to access attributes (variables) it to use the **`getattr()`** and **`setattr()`** functions.


A **type** is one of the most fundamental and abstract terms of Python:

- it is the foremost type that any class can be inherited from;
- as a result, if you’re looking for the type of class, then `type` is returned;
- in all other cases, it refers to the class that was used to instantiate the object; it’s a general term describing the type/kind of any object;
- it’s the name of a very handy Python function that returns the class information about the objects passed as arguments to that function;
- it returns a new type object when `type()` is called with three arguments; we'll talk about this in the 'metaclass' section.

Python comes with a number of built-in types, like numbers, strings, lists, etc., that are used to build more complex types. Creating a new class creates a new type of object, allowing new instances of that type to be made.

Information about an object’s class is contained in `__class__`.

If you run the code presented in the right pane, you'll get the type details of different objects.

```python
class Duck:
    def __init__(self, height, weight, sex):
        self.height = height
        self.weight = weight
        self.sex = sex

    def walk(self):
        pass

    def quack(self):
        return print('Quack')

duckling = Duck(height=10, weight=3.4, sex="male")
drake = Duck(height=25, weight=3.7, sex="male")
hen = Duck(height=20, weight=3.4, sex="female")

print(Duck.__class__)
print(duckling.__class__)
print(duckling.sex.__class__)
print(duckling.quack.__class__)

```

```python
<class 'type'> 
<class '__main__.Duck'>
<class 'str'>
<class 'method'>
```

As we predicted:

- the `Duck` class is of the 'type' type;
- the `duckling` object is an instance type built on the basis of the `Duck` class, and residing in the `__main__` scope;
- the `duckling.sex` is an attribute of the 'str' type;
- `duckling.quack` is an attribute of the 'method' type.

