Python allows for variables to be used at the instance level or the class level. Those used at the instance level are referred to as **instance variables**, whereas variables used at the class level are referred to as **class variables**.

# Instance variables

This kind of variable exists when and only when it is explicitly created and added to an object. This can be done during the object's initialization, performed by the `__init__` method, or later at any moment of the object's life. Furthermore, any existing property can be removed at any time.

Each object carries its own set of variables – they don't interfere with one another in any way. The word _instance_ suggests that they are closely connected to the objects (which are class instances), not to the classes themselves. To get access to the instance variable, you should address the variable in the following way: `object`.`variable_name`

```python
class Demo:

def __init__(self, value):

self.instance_var = value

d1 = Demo(100)

d2 = Demo(200)

print("d1's instance variable is equal to:", d1.instance_var)

print("d2's instance variable is equal to:", d2.instance_var)
```

- `   __init__` creates an `instance_var` variable for the instance. The keyword `self` is used to indicate that this variable is created coherently and individually for the instance to make it independent from other instances of the same class;
- we instantiate the class twice, each time passing a different value to be stored inside the object;
- the print instructions prove the fact that instance variable values are kept independently, because the printed values differ.

Another snippet shows that instance variables can be created during any moment of an object's life. Moreover, it lists the contents of each object, using the built-in `__dict__` property that is present for every Python object.

# Class variables

Class variables are defined within the class construction, so these variables are available before any class instance is created. To get access to a class variable, simply access it using the class name, and then provide the variable name.

```python
class Demo:
	class_var = 'shared variable'

print(Demo.class_var)
print(Demo.__dict__)
```

Similarly to instance variables, class variables are shown in the class's `__dict__` dictionary.

`shared variable {'__module__': '__main__', 'class_var': 'shared variable', '__dict__': , '__weakref__':...}`

As a class variable is present before any instance of the class is created, it can be used to store some meta data relevant to the class, rather than to the instances:

- fixed information like description, configuration, or identification values;
- mutable information like the number of instances created (if we add a code to increment the value of a designated variable every time we create a class instance)

A class variable is a class property that exists in just one copy, and it is stored outside any class instance. Because it is owned by the class itself, all class variables are shared by all instances of the class. They will therefore generally have the same value for every instance; **but** as the class variable is defined outside the object, it is not listed in the object's `__dict__`.

> [!important]
> When you try to set a value for the class variable using the object (a variable referring to the object or `self` keyword) but not the class, you are creating an instance variable that holds the same name as the class variable. The following snippet shows such a case – remember this in order to avoid wasting time hunting for bugs!

Class variables and instance variables are often utilized at the same time, but for different purposes. As mentioned before, class variables can refer to some meta information or common information shared amongst instances of the same class.

Another example shows that a class variable of a super class can be used to count the number of all objects created from the descendant classes (subclasses). We'll achieve this by calling the superclass `__init__` method.

