When we talk about function arguments, we should recall the following facts:

- some functions can be invoked without arguments;
- functions may require a specific number of arguments with no exclusions; we have to pass a required number of arguments in an imposed order to follow function definition;
- functions might have already defined default values for some parameters, so we do not have to pass all arguments as missing arguments, complete with defaults; parameters with default values are presented as keyword parameters;
- we can pass arguments in any order if we are assigning keywords to all argument values, otherwise positional ones are the first ones on the arguments list.

Now let’s get familiar with the functions that can accept any arbitrary number of positional arguments and keyword arguments.

So far we've been using a few such functions, but we haven't focused much on that fact.

The most basic example is a `print()` function:

```python
print()
print(3)
print(1, 20, 10)
print('--', '++')
```
  
All presented invocations of the `print()` function end correctly, and the argument values are passed to the standard output.

Another interesting example can be presented with a list function:

```python
a_list = list()
b_list = list(10, 20, 43, 54, 23, 23, 34, 23, 2)  print(a_list)
print(b_list);       
```

Similarly to the `print()` function, the `list()` function invocation accepts an arbitrary number of arguments. In fact, there are many, many other functions that accept arbitrary numbers of parameters, and you can spot them easily when reading third-party code.

How is it possible for Python functions to deal with a variable number of arguments? Can we prepare such functions ourselves?

The answer is yes, but it may look strange at first glance: _****args_ and _*****kwargs_. Don't worry, we'll tame them in a short moment.


Those two special parameters are responsible for handling any number of additional arguments (placed next after the expected arguments) passed to a called function:

- `*args` – refers to a tuple of all **additional, not explicitly expected** positional arguments, so arguments passed without keywords and passed next after the expected arguments. In other words, _*args_ collects all unmatched positional arguments;
- `**kwargs` (keyword arguments) – refers to a dictionary of all unexpected arguments that were passed in the form of keyword=value pairs. Likewise, _**kwargs_ collects all unmatched keyword arguments.

In Python, asterisks are used to denote that **args** and **kwargs** parameters are not ordinary parameters and should be unpacked, as they carry multiple items.

If you’ve ever programmed in the C or C++ languages, then you should remember that the asterisk character has another meaning (it denotes a pointer) which could be misleading for you.

Now if you take a look at the built-in `print()` function definition, it becomes clear how this function can accept any number of arguments, and why there is an asterisk before one of the parameters:

```python
def print(self, *args, sep=' ', end='\n', file=None):
```